---
title: Common Data Model
description: Page for Common Data Model
contributors:
  - https://github.com/bagra98
---

# Common JSON Data Model

The data models for all JSON content share many common elements. Long strings, unique identifiers, and URLs have been truncated here for legibility.

```
{
    "base": "https://lr.adobe.io/v2/catalogs/9479135e/",
    "id": "a3c679e3",
    "created": "2012-01-03T04:54:32.884643Z",
    "updated": "2012-01-03T04:54:32.884643Z",
    "type": "custom for each type",
    "subtype": "custom for each type",
    "payload": {
        "userCreated": "2012-01-03T04:54:15Z",
        "userUpdated": "2012-01-03T04:54:15Z",
        // custom for each type
    },
    "links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "custom/for/each/type/a3c679e3"
        }
        // additional links custom for each type
    }
}
```

Unless otherwise noted, all entries at the top level are constructed and provided by the server and can not be modified by clients.

* `base` (URL): Base URL for any relative HREF values in the data. When items are returned in a list, base will typically not be included with each entry.
* `id` (Lightroom-style UUID): Unique Lightroom identifier of this asset. It is usually generated by client on creation but may be generated by the server in some circumstances.
* `created` (ISO 8601 date): Date when asset was first uploaded to the server.
* `updated` (ISO 8601 date): Date when asset was most recently revised on the server.
* `type` (string): Always the same value for a type.
* `subtype` (string): A different set of legal values is defined for each type. Provided by the client on creation. A subtype is always required for types that support it.
* `payload` (optional, table): Metadata about the object provided by the client.
    * Values supported within the payload generally differ for each document type.
    * If the payload is completely empty, which is allowed for some types, then it will be omitted.
    * `userCreated` (ISO 8601 date): Date and time when the user created this document on the client side.
    * `userUpdated` (ISO 8601 date): Date and time when the user last updated this document's payload (or other user modifiable data). This should be set at initial creation and updated by a client each time a user makes a change to data within the payload hash. The userUpdated time should not be updated by automated processes (e.g. reverse geocode, etc.).
* `links` (table): Links to related data.
    * Each entry is a table containing an `href` entry with the actual link.
    * All types include the `self` link.
    * Each type may have other links supported.